## Definitions I've forgotten on practice tests
* RPO - recovery point objective: identifies the maximum amount of data, measured in time, that may be lost during a recovery effort
* RTO - recovery time objective: the amount of time expected to return an IT service to operation after failure
* MTD - maximum tolerable down time: longest amount of time that an IT service may be unavailable without causing serious damage
* SLA - service level agreement: written contracts that document service expectations
* Device finger printing via web portal - requires user authentication and gather lots of data to uniquely identify devices
* Data owner - responsible for classification of data
* pulverizing - best way to comply remove data so that it doesn't leak
* TACAS+ - cisco proprietary protocol. Improvement of radius
* Most frequent target of account management reviews are highly privileged accounts
* Types of Biometrics error.
  * type 1 - valid subject not authenticated
  * type 2 - invalid subject is authenticate
  * type 3/4 - not associated with biometric
* Keys
  * Primary - uniquely identifies a row
  * Foreign - uniquely identifies a row and matches to another table
  * Referential - not a database key
 * Types of fire extinguishers - this makes me so mad that we have to memorize these types
  * A - Fires that involve solid or organic materials, such as wood, plastics, paper, textiles, or coal
  * B - Fires that involve flammable liquids, such as gasoline, petroleum oil, paint, or diesel
  * C -  Fires that involve flammable gases, such as propane, butane, or methane
  * D - Fires that involve combustible metals, such as magnesium, lithium, sodium, potassium, titanium, or aluminum
  * E - electrical
  * F - cooking
* Risk indicators - can provide useful information for organizational planning and a deeper understanding of how organizations view risk.  Do not handle security response.
* FERPA - protects privacy information of students
* Digital Millennium Copyright act - protects IPS from activities of their customers
* Preservation - Ensure that information related to the matter at hand is protected against alteration or deletion
* Multitasking - handles multiple processes on a single processor by switching them using OS
* Multi-programming - requires modifications of underlying applications
* Incident response phases
  * Detection - most important step is to realize that there is a problem. Must have a machine analyzing network, as well as a person to filter false positives.
  * Response - need to determine an appropriate response. analyze all of the material before making a decision
  * Mitigation - contain the incident. act on the situation to reduce damage and to keep the situation in a manageable state
  * Reporting - summary of incident, indicators, related incidents, actions taken, chain of custody, impact assessment, identity, and next steps to be taken. assess obligations under laws, regulations, and procedures on how to communicate to
  * Recovery - trying to get the asset to a known good state
  * Remediation - need to make sure attack or failure is not successful again. patch the issue, and figure out if this could happen again in future
  * Lessons learned - what happened, what did we learn, any mistakes, what was good, can we do better next time, is there a good plan in place to deal with this in the future?
* Authentication and authorization web languages
  * SPML - an OASIS developed markup language to provide service, user, and resource provisioning between organizations
  * SAML - used to exchange user authentication and authorization data
  * XACML - used to describe access controls
  * SOAP -  like REST but has security in mind. Outlines how web service information is exchanged. When requesting access, a SOAP body contains a SAML request or response inside of it
  * REST - Representation State Transfer. an approach that uses HTTP protocol to access and manipulate text without keeping track of any data(or state)
  * OAUTH - open standard for authorization(not authentication) to third parties. Like when you authenticate with Facebook, you can then authorize it to go off and manage your photos. Facebook could access your photos until you tell it not to anymore
* Primary storage - ram is primary storage. secondary storage is hdds, solid state, and optical drives
Whoa.. just got 11/24 on a practice test...
* SIEM (security information and event management) helps provide automated analysis and monitoring of logs and security events. provide real-time analysis of security alerts generated by applications and network hardware.
* Requiring authentication provides accountability be ensuring actions taken can be tracked to a specific user.
* NAT - Network address translation in which a one-to-one translation from IP Address to IP address. This is commonly used in an organization that wants to give an internal system access to the Internet with a single public IP address translating to a single IP address in the private address space.
* PAT - Port address translation is a many-to-one relationship. This is commonly used on a firewall when a corporation wants all IP addresses in its internal network to use a single IP address.
* Layer 2 Tunneling Protocol (L2TP) is a hybrid of PPTP and Layer 2 Forwarding (L2F). It uses the same authentication mechanisms as PPTP but its tunneling protocol is advanced as it relies on IPSec for encryption.
* Parallel test - Testing new technology on Old and new hardware to compare the performance. Example: Testing an application in both production and development to check for any performance or any issues that was not found in during development. Can also used to check new release for issues in development before release.
* 3DES can use 2 or 3 keys
* RFC 1918 is range of 10.0.0.0 - 10.255.255.255
* Passive monitoring is : network tap, span port, monitors traffic and behaviors. Does not change or modify actions.
* Active monitoring relies on synthetic monitoring performs regular, scripted checks that simulate end-user behavior.
* RSA -  Runs in both asymmetric(encryption) and symmetric(digital signature). Used for establishing SSL/TLS which is a part of PKI.
